It's time for another Conceptual Aside.
We've already talked about types.
Now, it's time to talk in
depth about another concept
which will help us to debug and
understand some other
kinds of problems people have in
JavaScript because of its dynamic typing.
Let's talk about operators.
If you don't come from
a computer science background,
what we're about to
discuss may surprise you.
Well, either way.
Big word alert, operators.
What do we mean?
An operator is actually a special
function that is syntactically, or
that is written, differently than regular
functions are written in your code.
Generally, operators take two
parameters and return one result.
Let's look at an example.
I'm back to my index.html and
my app.js file.
And I'm going to increase my
font size here in side brackets,
just because what we're about
to discuss involve operators,
which are generally one or
two characters long.
So, I wanna make sure that this
is seen clearly in the video.
So, let's say that I
declare the variable a,
and I'm gonna set it equal
to three plus four, and
then console.log(a).
So, let me run this.
I bet you can guess what I'm
going to see on the screen.
That's right.
Seven.
Three plus four is seven.
Obvious.
But here's a question you
may not have asked yourself.
How did the JavaScript engine do that?
How did it know that this was
my intent to add three and four?
Well, the syntax parser and the rest of
the aspects of the engine looked at this
code, saw the plus sign and
added these two numbers.
This plus sign is an operator.
It's the addition operator and
it's actually a function.
It would be kind of like this.
It would be as if I declared a function
and instead of giving it the name add and
then maybe two numbers, I, instead,
simply gave it the name plus.
Gave it two number and then returned.
And then, somewhere in there,
add the two numbers [SOUND].
That was, essentially, what happened
when JavaScript saw this line of code.
The difference is that instead of calling
the function as you normally would.
If this was a function name, I would
then put parentheses and pass three and
four to it, and that would have
been a normal function call.
But that would be a really annoying
way to have to type your functions for
common operators like plus.
So, instead,
the JavaScript engine provides,
along with many programming languages,
the option for
the ability to write in
what's called infix notation.
Infix means that the function name, the
operator, sits between the two parameters.
So, instead of plus three, four,
calling the function this way.
Imagine that instead,
we remove the parentheses, and the comma.
That's called prefix notation.
I could put the plus sign at the end.
That would be called postfix notation.
A lot of old school accounting calculators
work this way where you put the operator
at the end but for our purposes in
JavaScript, this is infix notation.
It's very human readable, but
this is essentially a function
call passing two parameters.
And this function returns a value.
The value that it returns,
in the case of the addition operator,
is these two parameters added together.
So, plus is an operator.
There are other operators.
Common ones that you've used, most likely,
like if swap this and do minus and
console.log this value.
What am I going to get?
Obviously, a one.
Because this is an operator,
the minus sign.
Or if I asked a question,
four greater than three,
this is a function, a special one,
an operator, the greater than function,
or the greater than operator.
This is different because it accepts
two numbers and returns a Boolean.
Remember those primitives
that we talked about.
So, this will be true
if the left parameter
is greater than the right parameter.
It will be false otherwise.
So, if I refresh this, then yes,
four is greater than three.
So, this function accepted two numbers,
and returned a Boolean.
So, this is the concept to keep in mind.
That when we type these operators,
plus, minus, less than,
greater than, and a bunch of others
that we'll talk about in just a moment,
that these are actually
special types of functions.
That these parameters are being
passed to those functions and
a value is being returned.
And inside those functions, there is
pre-written code, essentially, for
you that the JavaScript language,
the engine provides to do,
or run, or to invoke these functions.
And what's happening inside those
functions is important to understand,
especially when dealing with a dynamically
typed language like JavaScript,
where you don't necessarily
know ahead of time,
what type the variable is.
The JavaScript engine will behave
in special ways because of that.
But for now, here, let's just keep in
mind that operators are functions.